Add Remaining Support Docs (#379)
helium/docs: docs/troubleshooting/hotspot-setup.mdx

---
id: hotspot-setup-troubleshooting
title: Hotspot Setup
sidebar_label: Hotspot Setup
slug: /wallets/app-wallet/hotspot-setup-troubleshooting
---

# Hotspot Setup Troubleshooting

If by chance you run into problems when adding a Hotspot to your account, here
are some basic troubleshooting tips to try out:

## I plugged in the Hotspot, but no lights came on:

- It may seem silly, but trying the plug in a different outlet (ideally on a
  separate circuit) can help eliminate the possibility of a blown circuit as the
  culprit.

> - If you have more than one hotspot, or an additional 5V 3A power adapter laying

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you have more than one Hotspot, or an additional 5V 3A power adapter laying
```

  around, trying a different power cord can help identify if it's a bad power

>   supply or if something else is the issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  supply or if something else is the issue. Please do not try any power adapter (always confirm it is 5V 3A) or else you will short-circuit the Hotspot which is irreparable.
```

- If the power outlet and cord do not seem to be the issue, try plugging in the
  Hotspot and leaving it plugged in for 2 minutes. Then check back to see if any
  lights are on.

> If there's no lights or activity after these steps, please contact us at

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there's no lights or activity after these steps, please contact the Hotspot manufacturer.
```

> support@helium.com and include the MAC address listed on the bottom of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> device and we can work with you to get the unit sent in for further diagnosis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Note that we are only able to RMA Hotspots that are under warranty and purchased

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that Helium is only able to RMA Hotspots that are under warranty and purchased
```

directly through Helium.com

> ## I can't Pair the hotspot with the App:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## I can't Pair the Hotspot with the App:
```

> - Double check that the phones bluetooth settings are enabled. Once enabled,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Double check that the phone's Bluetooth settings are enabled. Once enabled,
```

  return to the app to try pairing again. Be sure to press and hold the Pairing
  button for at least 3 seconds, then release.
- Make sure that the app has the Location permissions enabled. These can be
  found under App Info > Permissions > Location
- Make sure you have the latest version of the app from the app store.
- Try power-cycling the Hotspot by unplugging it, waiting 10 seconds, and
  plugging it back in. Force close and reopen the app, then attempt to Pair

>   again. If you still have trouble after trying these things, please feel free

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  again. If you still have trouble after trying these things, please 
```

>   to email support@helium.com and we can troubleshoot further with you. It's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 email your Hotspot manufacturer. It's
```

  helpful to include the Hotspots name and what color the light on the Hotspot
  is.
- Try downloading the Helium Hotspot Utility app from the app store, and see if
  you can pair with that. This can help determine if there’s a potential issue
  with the regular Helium app.

## I can Pair, but I can't add my location:

> Similarly to above, double check that the phones bluetooth settings are enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly to above, double check that the phones Bluetooth settings are enabled.
```

Once enabled, return to the app to try pairing again.

• Make sure that the app has the Location permissions enabled. These can be
found under App Info > Permissions > Location • Make sure you have the latest
version of the app from the app store. • Try power-cycling the Hotspot by
unplugging it, waiting 10 seconds, and plugging it back in. After it fully
reboots (can take a minute or two) Then attempt to Pair again. For RAK miners,
they are in pairing mode for the first 5 minutes after fully booting. • Try
completely closing and reopening the app.

> If you still have trouble and are able to run the diagnostics, please send that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you still have trouble and are able to run the diagnostics, please a report
```

> to support@helium.com. Please include a video of your screen if possible, to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to the Hotspot manufacturer. Please include a video of your screen if possible, to
```
